Hi there! Welcome to
this video where we
are going to learn
about digital
identity. In today's
digital world, we all
use devices connected
to the internet and
these devices help
systems recognize who
we are. Let's explore
what digital identity
means and why it is
important to protect
it. The goal of this
video is to help you
understand what
digital identity is
and why it matters.
First, we will look
at what identity
means in everyday
life. Then, we will
explore how identity
works online. Finally
, we will explain why
protecting your
digital identity is
important.
Every person has an
identity in real life
Your identity
includes things like
your name, your face,
your voice, and how
other people
recognize you. These
things help people
know who you are at
school, at home, and
in your community.
When we use digital
devices connected to
the internet, we also
have an identity
online. This is
called a digital
identity. Just like
in real life, your
digital identity
helps systems and
people recognize you
online.
Your digital identity
is created when you
use online services,
apps, games, or
school platforms.
Each time you log in
or create an account,
part of your digital
identity is used.
Usernames are one
part of your digital
identity. They are
often the name that
systems use to
recognize you. Some
people use their real
name, while others
use nicknames or made
-up names. Profile
pictures are another
part of digital
identity. These
images help others
recognize you online,
just like a photo on
an ID card. In games
and virtual worlds,
people often use
avatars. An avatar is
a character or image
that represents you.
Even if it looks
different from you,
it is still part of
your digital identity
. School accounts are
an important part of
your digital identity
. They allow you to
access learning
platforms, homework,
and communication
tools.
Your digital identity
is connected to your
digital assets.
Digital assets are
things that belong to
you online, such as
photos, messages, and
schoolwork. If
someone gets access
to your digital
identity, they may
also get access to
your digital assets.
That is why
protecting your
digital identity is
so important.
Protecting your
digital identity
helps keep your
information private
and safe. It also
helps prevent other
people from
pretending to be you
online. In the next
videos, you will
learn about
authentication and
passwords, which are
tools that help
protect your digital
identity.
Understanding your
digital identity is
the first step to
staying safe online
and making
responsible choices
in digital
environments. So in
this video, we
learned what digital
identity is and why
it matters. Next,
watch the video on
authentication to
learn how systems
check who you are
online.
Thank you for watching.